---
layout: post
title: "2016 In Review"
date: 2016-12-30 22:35:20 -0800
comments: true
categories:
- Bench
- Mobify
- Me
- Thoughts
- Year-In-Review
---

Here's my first attempt to summarize most important things happened in my professional life (mostly programming) this year, for future self. May be it'll be interesting for someone else too.

<!-- more -->

## Bench -> Mobify

Probably one of the hardest decisions I made was to leave Bench Accounting. I wrote all details [here](http://sap1ens.com/blog/2016/10/24/last-week-at-bench/), so I'm not going to repeat myself.

I do want to mention that I was in a Director role in 2016 and I spent a lot of time managing different teams and mentoring people. That was a great experience! And I still had time to contribute to Scala/Akka and Node.js projects.

Mobify surprised me in a few different ways. Good: project/product management is amazing! Also, Mobify is an early adopter for a lot of bleeding edge mobile web tech, like Progressive Web Apps and Payment Request API. Bad: as usual, lack of people. Pretty much every startup experiences that.

I had a chance to contribute to the internal Progressive Web SDK (ES6/React/Redux), which felt great, because I didn't work with front-end for a while and it was a nice opportunity to catch up.

Also it was exciting to explore and contribute to Scala/Kafka/Flink combo in a real-world streaming processing use case  (I hope to do it more in 2017).

We have some big plans for Q1 I'm going to mention soon ;-)

## Interviews

It was a long time since I had been interviewed, so I was a bit lost when I decided to find a new job. I quickly realized that for successful interview I just need to have two things:

- Ability to code really fast in a familiar environment
- Good knowledge of algorithms and data structures. Thanks to [bigocheatsheet.com](http://bigocheatsheet.com) and [www.hackerrank.com](https://www.hackerrank.com
)

## Blog

I had a goal to publish at least one blog post per month. So, as a result I wrote and published [12 posts](http://sap1ens.com/blog/archives/) in 2016 (including this one). Achievement unlocked! :-D I'm planning to publish at least 15 posts in 2017.

Also I've finally moved this blog to AWS S3/Cloudfront, now it's blazing fast and highly available!

Some annual stats about the blog:

- Pageviews: 13521
- Average session duration: 37 seconds
- Top 5 countries: USA, Canada, Germany, UK, India
- New / Returning visitor ratio: 80 / 20

## Conferences / Talks / Workshops

I visited 3 conferences and a few meetups this year. Mostly events in Vancouver:

- Polyglotconf
- DevOps Days
- Scala Meetup
- AWS User Group
- ReactJS Meetup
- ... probably something else I forgot to remember :)

Also, finally visited Strange Loop conference in St. Louis!

Not a lot of events, but DevOps Days and Strange Loop were really really great!

I also visited 3-days iDDD workshop with Vaughn Vernon! Lots of wisdom and hands-on experience, did my first Event Storming exercise.

I presented twice this year (Polyglotconf and AWS User Group in Vancouver), and I'm planning to do it more in 2017. I have some exciting news! Two of my workshop proposals are confirmed, I'm going to conduct full-day "Building Microservices with Scala and Akka" workshop at Microxchg Conference (Berlin, February 2017) and "Deep Dive Into Scala and Akka" full-day workshop at Craft Conf (Budapest, April 2017). And it's just a beginning of the year ;-)

## Things I Learned

- Scala is getting popular, but slowly
- I still like CoffeeScript, but ES6 is the future
- Docker Docker Docker
- "Micro" in microservices doesn't mean a lot
- DevOps is really hard
- [Local development tooling](https://gist.github.com/sap1ens/9129d9e646718765193589896efb6be6), thanks JM!
- Like: Kafka, Docker Swarm, Rust, React
- Dislike: Go
